---
layout: post
title: "Week 5 Recap"
author: "bigTeddies + GLAKevNCY"
categories: journal
tags: [recap]
image: week-4.png
---

## Preface

I believe we can say the season is well under way and finally we've had some interesting development. This week we saw 4 teams come to agreement for 2 trades. Fortunately for the Washup Alums, we have our own in house trade analyst to give us his take on the trades.

### Grade Recaps:

There were two big trades this week with a common theme: trading a strength in running back depth for a potential starting receiver upgrade. Yet there was also a clear contrast in motivation of the teams trading their running backs: desperation to avoid the pit vs desire to regain the top. Here is the explanation of my “arbitrary” grades:

Just Joshin’ Yah (Ryan) receives JORDAN ADDISON: A
False Start (Mamoon) receives DAVID MONTGOMERY: D- (curved to a C)

The idea seemed right for Mamoon, why have 4 startable running backs and be 0-3 when you could turn one running back into a comparable starting receiver who can actually start. But for Jordan Addison? The second part of that statement implied he got a starting quality receiver in return, not someone who would ride the bench less effectively than David Montgomery and less as a safety net than Montgomery. Did Mamoon forget he could have maybe gotten Gabe Davis instead? Is Kenny Pickett so bad as a Steeler that he figures Addison must be a savant to have made him look that good in college? The outlook especially looks bleak after Montgomery went off and Addison barely recorded a look by Cousins in a crowded Vikings passing game. Credit to Ryan for being Mamoon’s only suitor and cashing in on the trade. Mamoon will claim that it was a better trade the day it occurred, which is true but even then it looked pretty one sided. Here is what different website were ranking player values before the trade (each resource has different scale so compare each index directly)

Montgomery: 27,  21, 13, 65
Addison: 11, 18, 9, 50

As sad as 0-3 is, there were still 11 weeks left in the season and the overall signs were there that Mamoon would get some positive regression. Probably just wait and hold more than trade down. Did Mamoon potentially panic, move too soon, and put his team further behind the sticks than they already are … for the aptly named False Start? He may be thinking about this trade at mile 14 of his marathon.


TRADE 2: 

Gibbs Free Energy (Ted) receives Justin Fields, Bijan Robinson, Amari Cooper: A
ThePittsburghParrots (Mikhaila) receives Stefon Diggs & Lamar Jackson: C- (curved to a B-)

While Game of Jones receives all the praise from the early pundits with his big performances, to me the team with the clear best positioned team was ThePittsburghParrots. It had 3 elite running backs (Bijan Robinson, Tony Pollard and breakout Kyren Williams) that totally dominated their teams rushes and were in productive running offenses, another cowbell running back waiting in the wings (Brian Robinson), and the second highest scoring fantasy running back in football in Raheem Mostert (less confident as Dolphins backfield is crowded and too many mouths to feed). The receiver depth of Deebo, Cooper, and Kirk and QB play of Fields did leave something to be desired but wasn’t bad and still had the team looking to be the best.

So again it makes sense to make a trade (at some point), but when you are the arguably the best team it should be the right one as you are in a position of strength. But this trade just doesn’t seem to be that. Bijan for Diggs is close but almost everyone would take Bijan. The Lamar for Fields swap balances this back out and then it looks to be the type of trade you execute on. But then why include Cooper, the 38th overall pick who gives you good receiver depth when you don't need to make a deal yet? It let the trade occur, but it may have made it clearly in Ted’s favor as well.

I still think the Parrots may be the team to beat and maybe they will succeed and the haters will use it as a reason to say I was wrong. But the real question will be not if the Parrots succeed (as their strength is still there) but how the players in this trade fare. Perhaps the Parrots sold at the right time for Fields (not after Thursday?), Cooper (maybe the the Browns offense is not OK without Chubb and they are very pessimistic on Watson as Clevelanders), and Robinson (just sell high on an injury prone position) and Lamar and Diggs are the stars they can be. Or simply the depth of the running backs is consistently there and just getting Diggs is all it takes. 

Then again, there is an old adage in baseball that you can never have too much starting pitching in April and May (pitchers get hurt a lot and they are susceptible to bad stretches), and on the same note I am not sure you can really have too much running back depth this early in the year. This trade won’t determine who goes running, but may determine who is fat and happy around the holidays. For my personal rivalry with Teddy “Baseball runner up” Zhang, who surprisingly actually pulled off a trade after me watching him go back and forth with my father for 3 months during the baseball season (is him getting a trade done a sign it is one-sided?), let us hope I am wrong.

## Matchup Recaps 

<!-- Text -->

### Just Joshin' Yah vs. Running shoes

When I tell you noone expected this... I meant no one expected this. The Joshin' Yahs were the favorites coming into this matchup 

### Tua Lipa with DaBaby vs. Crimson Hawks



### <Team 1> vs. <Team 2>

<!-- Text -->

### <Team 1> vs. <Team 2>

<!-- Text -->

### <Team 1> vs. <Team 2>

<!-- Text -->

### **GAME OF THE WEEK:**
### <Team 1> vs. <Team 2>

<!-- Text -->

## Power Ranking Up-To-Date

Based off of `MPP (Max Potential Points)`

1. Game of Jones
2. False Start
3. The Pittsburgh Parrots
4. Cute n' Cuddly Capybaras
5. my name's jeff-erson
6. Just Joshin' Yah!
7. Fighting Poohs
8. Money Back
9. Tua Lipa with DaBaby
10. Crimson Hawks
11. Gibbs Free Diggawatts
12. Chasin' not Last

### Notes

